4. Describe the SELinux security model.

ИЗТОЧНИЦИ - 1:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SELinux
http://elinux.org/Security#SELinux

Security-Enhanced Linux (SELinux) is a Linux feature that provides the mechanism for supporting access control security policies, including United States Department of Defense-style mandatory access controls, through the use of Linux Security Modules (LSM) in the Linux kernel. 
It is not a Linux distribution, but rather a set of kernel modifications and user-space tools that can be added to various Linux distributions. 
Its architecture strives to separate enforcement of security decisions from the security policy itself and streamlines the volume of software charged with security policy enforcement.
The key concepts underlying SELinux can be traced to several earlier projects by the United States National Security Agency.
It has been integrated into the mainline Linux kernel since version 2.6, on 8 August 2003.

Features:
    Clean separation of policy from enforcement
    Well-defined policy interfaces
    Support for applications querying the policy and enforcing access control (for example, crond running jobs in the correct context)
    Independent of specific policies and policy languages
    Independent of specific security label formats and contents
    Individual labels and controls for kernel objects and services
    Support for policy changes
    Separate measures for protecting system integrity (domain-type) and data confidentiality (multilevel security)
    Flexible policy
    Controls over process initialization and inheritance and program execution
    Controls over file systems, directories, files, and open file descriptors
    Controls over sockets, messages, and network interfaces
    Controls over use of "capabilities"
    Cached information on access-decisions via the AVC (Access Vector Cache)

SELinux - This provides an implementation of the Flask Flux Advanced Security Kernel for Linux. 
SELinux started as a kernel patch which was presented by the NSA to kernel developers during the 2001 kernel summit. 
Feeback from this presentation started the LSM project, and the SELinux project helped define large parts of the LSM interface. 	


